# COVID-19 Vaccine Phase III Meta-Analysis
Companion code to the study "A meta-analysis of phase III clinical trials of approved vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 and variants," by Dhayfule et al. (2024). This project provides analytical tools to assess and visualize the efficacy of 38 approved COVID-19 vaccines based on data from phase III clinical trials conducted between May 4, 2020, and June 10, 2022. The analysis encompasses diverse SARS-CoV-2 variants, with the aim to standardize the estimation methods for vaccine efficacy.

Employing statistical methods such as relative risk and Poisson regression with robust error variance, this project enables the comparison of recalculated vaccine efficacies against the initially reported values. 


## Setup Environment

### Requirements
- Python 3.10.12
- conda package manager

### Installation
1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Install the necessary Python packages:
   ```bash
   conda create --name vaccine_analysis python=3.10
   conda activate vaccine_analysis
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Code

### Scripts and Notebooks

1. **rw_ve_plot.py**
   - **Description**: Plots vaccine efficacy data with error bars representing confidence intervals.

2. **vaccine_details_plot.ipynb**
   - **Description**: A Jupyter notebook that visualizes vaccine efficacy details using various plotting functions from `rw_ve_plot.py`.

3. **ve_recalculate.ipynb**
   - **Description**: Recalculates vaccine efficacy and its confidence intervals using data from `vaccine_details.xlsx`.
   - **How to Run**: Execute this notebook to generate `rw_vaccine_details.xlsx` with recalculated efficacy values.

## Data

1. **vaccine_details.xlsx**
   - **Description**: Contains raw vaccine efficacy data used in the visualizations and recalculations.

2. **rw_vaccine_details.xlsx**
   - **Generated by**: `ve_recalculate.ipynb`
   - **Description**: Contains recalculated vaccine efficacy data.

## Usage

To generate all plots and analyses:
1. Ensure all data files are in the appropriate directory.
2. Run the scripts and notebooks as described in the **Code** section.